Maybe Lukas is bonded to an Imp somehow?
It could give him some minor power (Fire Supremacy?), but also makes him vulnerable to Suggestion.

Also, Krusk is bonded to something too.


What does Typhon/Dispater/Fatagris want with followers?  Anything?
Yeah, he wants to rule.  He's an archdevil.


Meet a druid, confirm the writing is in fact druidic.
Refuse to help open it.
Containers of the like were created to protect the world from itself.


Power sealed inside overcome greatest threat

Druid (Wise old chinese dude) says:
"I can not help you."
"The power stored within that canister may someday be the only way to overcome the greatest threat this world may ever know."
"However, it's also possible that the power sealed inside could in fact create that very threat."



Welcome Party is carrying a copy of their scripture, in Common.
Tells story of their God.

The war of exile:
Fatagris existed in another world/plane, offered them salvation, and they spurned him.
He fought to save the world from itself, but that world had the assistance of angels.
Fatagris was wounded in a cowardly attack by the angel Ragathiel.
Enraged and frustrated by their unwillingness to accept help, Fatagris abandoned that world to its fate.

Fatagris observations:
He came to this world in a glourious fireball, offering us a chance for salvation.
He witnessed in this world, insignificant beings crawling about the muck, habitually engaging in senseless rituals throughout their brief existence.
Quickly forgotten.
These beings were mortals - ie: us.
Fatagris came to recognize these mortals as intelligent, and soon thereafter learned their greatest fear was a lack of importance.
Given little time, these mortals spend all of it in the vain attempt to gain a little more.
Mortals' only goal is to exist as long as possible, whether that be in lifespan or legacy.
  "Leave your mark", and the bigger that mark, the better.
Mortals fear their lack of permanence.

Fatagris promises a merit system, where those that earn/deserve permanence may receive it.
Through Fatagris, we achieve a measure of immortality.
  Some in actuality, some symbolically.
Those who serve Fatagris are elevated to positions of importance.
Those who oppose end up struggling futilely, temporarily.
The Fatagrins work for a world free of conflict, where all living creatures have a clear sense of purpose.
 -PS: If you're not useful, you're killed.
It's clear to see that Fatagris' dominance is inevitable.
  Those that follow, persist.
  Those that do not, fade.
  Natural conclusion: All that remain are followers.
  Morale: Patience, and steady progress.
Steps don't have to be big, - just in the right direction.

Moksha:
It's said that Fatagris will grow in strength until the fires of
  judgement burn away all that is unworthy, leaving "paradise" - a world of purpose & meaning.
This should have already happened, however Ragathiel caused trouble again.
The have-nots learned of the approaching purification, and sought to stop it.
Ragathiel sent the mortals a weapon, in the form of a star fallen from the heavens.
The mortals sent an army and a champion to strike against Fatagris, just as they did in that other world.
With the power of Ragathiel, they were able to strike down Fatagris and end The Enkindling.
This coalition of mortals, driven by the same fear of power that led them to attack
  Fatagris, and foolishly believing the immortal Fatagris to be dead, sundered the
  fallen star and scattered the pieces.

Prophecy:
Fatagris is permanent.  He can not be ended - only delayed.
He has been reduced to a spark, but from that spark a fire will erupt.
Fatagris rests, growing in strength.
The worthy understand this, and prepare the world to welcome Fatagris when he returns.
The Enkindling will come, eventually.
The unworthy will be burned from the face of Domus, and those that deserve will receive.
A perfect meritocracy awaits.


