http://dndspeak.com/2017/12/100-sea-travel-events/



Introduce bard, make friends, etc.
Name's Joline - just another treasure hunter.


Maybe Trepp's a stowaway, and gets blamed for the murder.


Have the Bard Assassin kill the Windfinder?
It gets blamed on the party.
Diplomacize or fight.


If/when Windfinder dead, storm comes in.
Fighting the storm:
  Captain gets DC20 to KnowledgeEngineering, or Profession, or KnowledgeNature the boat to reduce DC of waves.
  Someone playing lookout for captain can make DC20 perception to give captain advantage on Steering rolls.
  Saves vs wind/waves


If we're all friends, bring in a Sea Serpent.


Fighting with the Ship:
  2 standard actions to reload one.
  Move action to aim a cannon, Standard to fire it.
  To-Hit = Ranged attack or KnowledgeEngineering.
  4d8 damage from cannon shot.
  Note: Cannon-fire can get something off the ship.


Maybe:
Sirens?
Purple ooze floating on the sea.  Knowledge Nature (DC20) identifies as an aggressive lichen that will eat the ship hull.

When we arrive at the islands, everyone's gone (or dead).  Cause: Sirens? 






Guiding Hand:
  A flower, like a lily, with 5x white petals that fade to a deep blue in the center where the pistil is.
  The plant flowers annually, and each flower contains a single seed.
  When cultivated with holy water blessed by a priest of Irori, that seed can be used for foretelling.
  When burnt, the seed smolders, emitting a heavy smoke - white=positive, black=negative response.  ie: Yes/No


Plot-points:
Non-Fatagrin religions have been driven out of Rulon.
Rulon locals are having a rough time of it - overtaxed, men conscripted, bandit raids.
Rulon locals blame Duvia for their trouble, due to Rulon propaganda.
Rask is drumming up aggression for Duvia, and support for his war against 'em.

Trepp can tell them:
Hometown was raided when he was young, he was captured & sold to slavers.
Slavers sold him to Duke Edmund Bearoak of Gibia, and he trained & performed as a court bard for awhile.
Bearoak was okay.  He permitted vacations and such, trusting they'd return because of the slave collar.
Seek new info, tell new stories, etc.
Bearoak got a new advisor who disapproved of the court bards, and Trepp was sold back to slavers.
Purchased by Mormus, who is just awful.
Brutal to him, sends him into dangerous positions, forces him to do morally bankrupt stuff, drills him for information.

Trepp's suffering from a disease, Red Breath:
https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/afflictions/diseases/diseases-paizo-inc/tuberculosis/


The clerics tattoo their offhand blue, which becomes their holy symbol.
Krusk has a dessicated blue hand on display, and/or around his neck?

Krusk:
https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/npc-s/npcs-cr-10/warchief-orc-barbarian-11/



Irori Temple guardians
They're being besieged, so they're all stocking defensive & sustenance spells.
Ki Metabolism (Su): A monk with this ability uses his ki to control his metabolism. As long as he has at least 1 point remaining in his ki pool, the monk needs to eat and drink only 1/4 as often as normal, needs only 2 hours of sleep each night (including to replenish his ki pool), and can hold his breath for up to 1 hour per point of Constitution. As a move action, he can spend 1 ki point to enter a state of suspended animation, falling unconscious and appearing dead to all senses. At the time he enters this state, he indicates a preset period of time or a triggering condition, after which he awakens.

L0:
 Purify food/drink (L0)
 Create Water (L0)
 Abstemiousness (L1)
 Dream Feast (L1)
 Hidden Spring (L1)
 Enhance Water (L1)
 Create food/water (L3)

L1:
 Abundant Ammunition
 Magic Weapon
 Blessing of the Watch
 Cure Wounds
Entropic Shield
Hedging Weapons
Obscuring Mist
Remove Sickness
Refine Improvised Weapon
 Sanctuary
Stone Shield






Pipa:
Be a Vigilante
https://www.d20pfsrd.com/classes/base-classes/vigilante/
 Metabolism (Su): A monk with this ability uses his ki to control his metabolism. As long as he has at least 1 point remaining in his ki pool, the monk needs to eat and drink only 1/4 as often as normal, needs only 2 hours of sleep each night (including to replenish his ki pool), and can hold his breath for up to 1 hour per point of Constitution. As a move action, he can spend 1 ki point to enter a state of suspended animation, falling unconscious and appearing dead to all senses. At the time he enters this state, he indicates a preset period of time or a triggering condition, after which he awakens.
Worship Cayden Cailean
  Portfolio: Freedom, ale, wine, bravery
  Worshippers: Brewers, vintners, barkeeps, innkeepers, good adventurers
  Domains: Chaos, Charm, Good, Strength, Travel

Keeran gives a present (Masterwork hand crossbow) to Pipa.


