https://fontmeme.com/fonts/indenture-english-penman-font/
Think of a value
Date, Duvia seal, someone's signature, maybe some wax something

3d print a Duvia Seal
Also my own Signet, shit yeah

Income is based on students & level-up cost.
How far can Necros level-up in his school?
How long does it take?



Magical Academy
Create (from nothing):
  121 Goods, (comp'd - you have a house)
  17 Influence,
  110 Labor, (Reduce this, more if he gets Willenbrock to teach)
  5 Magic
  Total: (5,630 gp)
Rooms 1 Alchemy Lab, 2 Baths, 1 Bedroom, 1 Bell Tower, 1 Bunks, 2 Classrooms, 1 Common Room, 1 Courtyard, 1 Greenhouse, 1 Kitchen, 1 Lavatory, 1 Magical Repository, 1 Observation Dome, 2 Offices, 1 Scriptorium, 1 Sitting Room, 1 Statue
An institution for training students in the magical arts.

Cost of earning capital:
Capital		Purchased Cost	Earned Cost
Goods		20 gp		10 gp
Influence	30 gp		15 gp
Labor		20 gp		10 gp
Magic		100 gp		50 gp

Earning table:
Skill Check Result	Capital Earned* (Goods, Influence, Labor, Or Magic)
10			1
20			2
30			3
40			4



Headmaster
Wage: 3 gp/day
Skills: Diplomacy, Knowledge (any two), Profession (any one)
A Headmaster manages a place of learning, such as a Bardic College, Magical Academy, or University. She’s typically a 3rd-level alchemist, bard, expert, rogue, sorcerer, wizard, or witch. Running an establishment of higher learning includes basic administration, educating students, and ongoing research.


Research the deets for a player-character undergoing training:

Jondi's employees:
 Let him pick from all CR1/CR2 NPCs, but just give him the names, not the stats.
 They make a profession skill-check as if they were PCs earning wages during downtime.  

Jondi's profits:
 For each student, they need to do the actual, correct, formal "Training" to get XP, then "Leveling up" process.
 Whatever that time/cost is, that's Jondi's income rate.

Jondi's expenses:
 To make CL1 Necros, he needs to buy spell components to teach enough spells for an SL1 Necro.
 To make CLX (SL2) Necros, he needs to buy all SL1 Necro spell components once, and some SL2 components
 He must expand the building as necessary to accomodate all the students/teachers.

Jondi's unexpected expenses:
 Natural disasters?
 Spell mishaps (1/week/student)
 https://www.d20pfsrd.com/gamemastering/other-rules/downtime/

Make him name it.
