900 gp up-front for first month's wages
100gp/month to pay the headmaster

200gp/week average generation?


Magical Academy:
1 Alchemy Lab, Earnings gp, Goods, or Magic +10
2 Baths, Earnings gp or Influence +15
1 Bedroom
1 Bell Tower
1 Bunks
2 Classrooms
1 Common Room
1 Courtyard
1 Greenhouse
1 Kitchen
1 Lavatory
1 Magical Repository
1 Observation Dome
2 Offices
1 Scriptorium
1 Sitting Room
1 Statue


1x Alchemy Lab
Earnings: +10
Size 8–16 squares
This room aids you when you’re attempting Craft (alchemy) checks, researching new alchemist formulae, and performing similar alchemical tasks. Up to three people can use the room at a time.

2x Bath
Earnings: +3
Size: 3-6 squares
A Bath contains a single large bathtub or multiple smaller basins, along with a stove for heating water. After spending 1 hour in this room, you gain a +2 bonus on your next ongoing Fortitude save against disease.

1x Bedroom
Earnings: +3
Size: 4-8 squares
A Bedroom provides comfort and privacy for one to two people, and typically features one large bed or two smaller beds. Many also have furnishings or features, such as chairs, wardrobes, chests, tables, or small fireplaces. a Bedroom might be the sleeping place of a building’s owner or a comfortable room for rent.

1x Bell Tower
Earnings: +1
Size: 9–25 squares
This two-story room contains one or more bells suitable for warnings or music, along with bell pulls for operating the instruments from below. The bells can be heard up to 1 mile away.

1x Bunkroom
Earnings: +8
Size: 15-35 squares
Bunks provide housing and limited storage for up to 10 people. Though hardly private, this space typically includes beds or cots, linens, small chests with poor locks, and chamber pots. If this room is part of an Inn, the building is more of a flophouse or hostel than a traveler’s hotel, which would have private rooms. If part of a Hospital, this room houses patients.

2x Classroom
Earnings: +8
Size: 5-20 squares
This small meeting place gives numerous attendees an unobstructed view of a single lecturer. Many classrooms contain seating for those in attendance, a lectern, and a display table or chalkboard.

1x Common Room
Earnings: +7
Size: 10–30 squares
This versatile open area has enough space for many people to use at once. a Common Room is typically furnished with benches, chairs, cushions, mats, pews, or stools, and might have tables.

1x Courtyard
Earnings: +5
Size: 20–40 squares
This large, open area might be constructed to feature decorative landscaping or be a more utilitarian space for drills, meetings, or storage.

1x Greenhouse
Earnings: +12
Size: 10–20 squares
This garden is protected by glass and has its interior climate deliberately regulated. Delicate or exotic plants raised in this area grow larger and healthier than in a normal garden. Certain types of rare plants can be raised only in a Greenhouse.

1x Kitchen
Earnings: +4
Size: 2–6 squares
A Kitchen is used to prepare food. It contains a stove, sink, and small pantry with basic cooking tools and supplies. a Kitchen for a business that serves food, such as an Inn, probably also has Storage just for foodstuffs.

1x Lavatory
Earnings: None
Size 1–4 squares
A Lavatory includes up to four 5-foot-by-5-foot private rooms for dealing with biological functions. If a building doesn’t have a Lavatory, people in it must go elsewhere for this sort of activity. Depending on the building and settlement, a Lavatory might be an outhouse, a closet with a chamber pot, or a stool connected to an external system such as a cesspit or pig trough. If the building has a Sewer Access, you can automatically connect all Lavatories in the building to the settlement’s sewer system. The sanitation improvement from having a Lavatory mean residents, guests, employees, and others who frequent the building gain a +2 bonus on Fortitude saves to resist contracting a disease while in the settlement.

1x Magical Repository
Earnings: +12
Size: 4–12 squares
A Magical Repository is similar to a Book Repository, but specific to the study of the arcane arts. It contains shelves of books, comfortable chairs, and tables for studying and for scribing notes and scrolls. If you construct this room from scratch, it grants someone who studies there for 1 hour a +3 bonus on a Knowledge (arcana) check to answer a question. If you upgrade a Book Repository into this room, you either keep the original Book Repository’s bonus on Knowledge checks or change its skill to Knowledge (arcana). An hour of study in this room also grants a +3 bonus on Spellcraft checks. The room grants an additional +1 bonus on Knowledge (arcana) and Spellcraft checks for spell research (see Research a Spell) and crafting magic items.

1x Observation Dome
Earnings: +5
Size: 10–20 squares
This elevated room is open to the sky, has a skylight, or has a retractable roof to allow you to observe the passing of celestial bodies. An Observation Dome includes shelves containing records and notes, a telescope, and other devices dedicated to celestial study. If someone spends 1 hour researching in the Observation Dome, she gains a +2 bonus on Knowledge (geography), Knowledge (nature), and Knowledge (planes) checks to answer a question about the heavens.

2x Office
Earnings: None
Size: 2–5 squares
This simple room includes a door with a simple lock, a chair, and a large desk that has two drawers with simple locks. An Office affords its user privacy and a refuge from other activity in the building.

1x Scriptorium
Earnings: +5
Size: 5–16 squares
A Scriptorium is where scribes do their work. It contains chairs and writing desks, as well as ink, paper, and other supplies needed to create or copy written works. Up to three people can use the room at a time for scribing scrolls or using Craft (calligraphy) or Profession (scribe).

1x Sitting Room
Earnings: +4
Size: 6–10 squares
This is a room used for meeting and entertaining in a relaxed, comfortable setting, such as a den, dining room, or smoking room. It has furnishings appropriate to its function (chairs for a sitting room, table and chairs for a dining room, and so on). By spending an hour conversing with guests in a social manner, the host of the room gains a +1 bonus on Bluff, Diplomacy, Intimidate, Knowledge (local), and Perform checks to influence or learn about those guests for the next 24 hours.

1x Statue
Earnings: +1
Size: 1–9 squares
This area contains a statue, fountain, or other large decoration. If it has religious significance, it might serve as a shrine. The listed cost and time are only to install a completed wood, bronze, or stone feature — they don’t include the cost and time to create the feature in the first place, but it must be installed to produce Earnings.





Per-day:
20% chance of Event at all
+5% chance every time nothing occurs

Magical Academy:
01–10	Unexpected Grant
11–20	Student Discovery
21–40	Roll on Table: Military Academy Events
41–45	Bitter Student
46–70	Magical waste
71–80	Experiment amok
81–90	Explosion
91–100	Hazing gone wrong

Military Academy Events:
01–10	Famous alumnus
11–20	Unexpected grant
21–45	Competition
46–60	Scandal
61–65	Roll on Table: Magical Academy Events
66–80	Spoiled student
81–100	Duel


Unexpected Grant
Your academy has attracted the right kind of attention. You gain 2d4 points of Goods, and the building gains a +10 bonus on its next check to generate capital.

Student Discovery
A student makes an unexpected discovery. You gain 1d3 points of Magic.

Bitter Student
Whether the pupil is dissatisfied with a grade or was expelled and now holds a grudge, this student has it in for your academy. The bitter student is adept at hiding out—he could be anyone! Until you expose the bitter student, each time you’d roll an event for this building, you must roll twice, and the GM chooses the worse of the two results. When you roll this event, immediately roll twice on the Generic Building Events table, and the GM chooses which of the two possible events occurs. You can try to find and expose the student once per day by attempting a DC 30 Perception check. The DC lowers by 1 for each prior failure as you get closer to identifying the culprit. The bitter student is exposed automatically if you reroll this event as either of your two rolls.

Magical Waste
A student ruins some equipment or wastes some magic. You lose 1d3 points of Magic.

Experiment Amok
A student’s experiment has broken loose! This is a monster chosen by the GM, with a CR equal to your average party level—usually a construct, outsider, or even an undead, though your favored type of magic may mean other kinds of creatures are possible. You must defeat the monster in combat (your students flee the creature, but other PCs may help you defeat it if they are present). At the end of each combat round the monster remains alive, its rampage deals damage to the building, costing 1 point of Goods, Magic, or Labor (chosen randomly each time).

Explosion
Crafting goes awry or dangerous reagents are spilled, causing an explosion. You lose 1d2 points of Goods and must attempt a DC 20 Survival check. If you fail, your building catches fire, as the fire event, except there is a 50% chance of a minor fire and a 50% chance of a major fire.

Hazing Gone Wrong
One of your students is the victim of a cruel prank at the hands of the other students. The hazing event is shameful and dangerous, and you lose 1d6 points of Influence as the community learns of it. You must succeed at a DC 20 Heal or Spellcraft check to help the student. If you fail the check, the student dies or is permanently maimed, and you lose another 2d6 points of Influence, 1d6 points of Labor, and 1d3 points of Magic in dealing with the repercussions of the hazing.

Famous Alumnus
An old veteran or beloved hero who either attended your academy or is otherwise associated with its traditions comes to visit. The visit lasts 2d6 days, during which you gain 1 point of Influence each day. The visitor demands a significant amount of your personal time. If you don’t spend the majority of your time each day wining and dining your visitor, she loses interest and leaves, costing you 2d6 points of Influence.

Competition
Several teachers and classes organize an impromptu competition between students. This competition could be a classic tournament, a mock battle, a military recreation, or even a series of gladiatorial bloodsports. If you spend 1d3 points of Goods to outfit the participants with particularly flashy equipment, you gain 1d6 points of Influence and your building gains a +10 bonus on its next check to generate capital.

Scandal
Some sort of scandal strikes your academy — an affair between a teacher and a student, a destructive prank or dangerous hazing, a student brawling with a noble’s son, or the like. The scandal’s repercussions last 2d4 days. During that period, it’s difficult for anyone at the academy to concentrate, the building takes a –5 penalty on checks to generate capital, and you lose 1d2 points of Influence each day. Once per day, you can attempt to repair the damage to your reputation and end the event with a successful DC 20 Bluff or Diplomacy check. Failure extends the duration of the scandal’s fallout by another 1d4 days.

Spoiled Student
A student accustomed to an easier life demands special treatment. If you don’t provide it by spending 1d4 points of Goods and 1d4 points of Influence, the student threatens to quit the academy. Attempt a DC 25 Intimidate check. If you fail, the student and several toadies leave, costing you 2d6 points of Labor. If you succeed, only the student leaves, costing you 1d4 points of Labor. If you beat the DC of this check by 10 or more, the student stays (this costs you no Labor) and works hard; this impresses the student’s parents, who praise your academy, and earns you 1d6 points of Influence.

Duel
Two students or teachers have a dispute that must be settled with a duel to the death. You can prevent the duel by spending 1d4 points of Influence or succeeding at a DC 25 Diplomacy or Intimidate check. Otherwise, you lose 1 point of Labor and 1d2 points of Influence.













Cost of earning capital:
Capital         Purchased Cost  Earned Cost
Goods           20 gp           10 gp
Influence       30 gp           15 gp
Labor           20 gp           10 gp
Magic           100 gp          50 gp

