Zoom out, then zoom into a mountain.
Focus on a large cave entrance in the mountain, passing into a large cavern.  
Cavern is lit fairly well by daylight from above.
A rope dangles from the opening into the cavern.
In a corner of the cavern, you can see the backside of a huge creature that appears to be a blend of earth elemental and red dragon.  Its scales appear made of stone, and an angry red glow seems to emanate from beneath the scales.
Bits of gore splatter the walls of the cavern as the dragon devotes itself to its meal rather... enthusiatically.
The vision carries you away from the dragon, into a different cubby of the cavern.
This area reminds you of a time that now seems long ago, when you discovered Black Fang's treasure horde.
This horde is much larger, and a dim pink glow can be seen from under a marble statue.
As the vision focuses on the glow, unexpectedly, two small hands appear at the edges of your vision, pushing the statue aside, and grabbing the metallic pink shard.
As the vision zooms out, you can see the source of the hands - a male halfling deftly pockets the shard and tiptoes toward another pile of treasure.


Zoom out, then zoom in onto a lushly-wooded mountain.
You can see a stocky humanoid riding a bear, walking through the forest.
Vision passes through ground, emerging in an underground chamber.
Many dwarves roam this chamber, which is relatively well lit.  They wear leathers and furs in greens and browns.
Some younger dwarves are playing with bear cubs.
Your perspective continues diving deeper, through the floor.
You pass through another layer, into a very dimly lit hall, traversed by shirtless, heavily-muscled dwarves, pushing carts loaded with stone.
Further down, you find yourself in a small room lit by the dull glow of a hot forge.  A lone dwarf beats a bar of metal with a hammer.
Further still, you pass through a dark and narrow hall.  Two dwarves, wearing necklaces that glow dimly with a blue light, swing picks at the stone walls.  Something in the stone sparkles in the dim light.
Still deeper, you pass into a massive chamber, containing many deep & wide chasms.  Earthen walls are built up on one side of the chamber, heavily-armed dwarves stand atop the walls, holding torches and staring into the darkness.
Your perspective plunges past a ruined bridge, deep into one of the ravines.  The vision fades to black as the last vestiges of light are left behind (above) you.
The sense of downward motion continues, and you get intermittent impressions of emptiness and claustrophobia, as you presumably pass through more layers of earth & cavern.
You can't make out much in the darkness, but you feel a strong sense of dread, and unease.  You can almost make out forms in the darkness, but not quite.  A few descriptive words come to mind - moving, huge, wet, hungry.
Suddenly your vision is filled with a pink glow.  Though dim, it seems blindingly bright in comparison to the suffocating darkness you've just experienced.
The walls in this tiny chamber also appear metallic.  Huge rivet-heads pepper the walls, and the size of those rivets suggests these are very, very thick walls.
On a shelf in this wardrobe-sized room, rests a small, triangular stone glowing pink.

