The structure has clearly been assembled from salvage.
It looks almost as if a rusty car engine just-barely contained multiple explosions.
It's bulbous, like a mass of bubbles floating atop water.
Streaks of rust run down the walls, and the entire structure is covered in a web of wire.
At the top of the highest bulge, you can see something in a glass container, glowing teal.
All the wires seem to be oriented around that container.



Entering the building, it's hard to miss the 10-foot tall magma elemental in the center
of the room.  It immediately opens its mouth-like orifice and vomits a stream of magma at you.
Reflex saves, DC25
"The magma splashes against an invisible barrier and pools at the creature's feet."
Phineas laughs at anyone who succeeded at the Reflex save.

Realizing you're not immediately at risk of being showered in lava, you take a moment to assess.
The elemental is actually contained within a glass globe, etched with runes.
It begins pounding on the glass with its fist-like appendages.
The runes on the glass glow softly - more brightly where the lava and elemental touch.
Chains of scripted runes lead from the globe up a column to the ceiling.
Some connect to glowing metal plates suspended from the ceiling, which light the interior.
Some trace to larger runs along the wall/ceiling with no apparent function.

Now that you look closer, there are other, smaller creatures contained in smaller globes.
Those globes seem to be attached to various machinations throughout the room.
There's an array of big metal pipes/tubes.
What looks like an alchemickal still.
One thing, you'd swear it were a kitchen stove, except that some machine is being stored where you'd normally start a woodfire.
-Forbiddance: To contain demons.
-Transference: Used to link powered ward to effected ward.
-Light: For light, obviously.
-Heat: To draw heat out of the house, effectively creating AC.
-Moisture: For his garden, and on the still.
-Breeze: As a fume extractor.

Also, you're pretty sure this is a huge waste of time.
The fate of the world rests in your hands, you're on a deadline,
  and you're busy chatting it up with some crazy gnome tinkerer.
This guy really needs to come to terms with the fact that he's not keeping this stone.
Like, yesterday.



Build supports to "brace" or hang the entire ship from the levistone/unobtanium/crystal/SIMPL.

Gnome = Phineas Nathaniel Rosen Podolsky
Phineas the Furious

SIMPLE-VIG-FEMAAA = "Simple-Vig-FeeMahh"

Stimulatable
Ionic
Metallic
Polycrystalline
Lattice which
Effects a
Variable
Inverse
Gravimetric
Force when
Excited by
Measured
Application of
Arcane
Aura


Model: Small wooden frame containing a wired-up piece of SIMPL, sitting on a scale.
 -Gnome places Ring of Jolt in lead box, open/closes box to excite SIMPL.
 -More aura = lighter box, until box starts "falling" upward.

Theory: Large crystal, exposed to a sufficiently-powerful magical aura, could fly a ship.
"Engine" could be a mass of crystal separated by a actuated lead barrier.
 -Withdrawing barrier exposes crystal to aura, increasing the anti-grav.

Small mountains NE of Gnome's house contain caverns, contains a large deposit of SIMPL.
Problem: It's home to a population of giants.
They used to build & live in great towers.
They undertook the Great Work, a massive tower to reach the heavens and meet their god Pazuzu.
Their pride was punished, fire rained from the sky, driving the giants underground.
The god Kostchtchie (KOSH-chuh-chai) offered them sanctuary within the earth, he's the new god now.
Giants know of the SIMPL, but they guard it, because it is Pazuzu's.
They'll guard it to protect themselves frmo Pazuzu's wrath.
Get it.


Gnome's House:
He's captured Outsiders and is using them to charge the wards in his house.
-Light: For light, obviously.
-Heat: To draw heat out of the house, effectively creating AC.
-Forbiddance: To contain demons.
-Moisture: For his garden.
-Transference: Used to link powered ward to effected ward.
-Breeze: As a fume extractor.

