Welcome Party is carrying a copy of their scripture, in Common.
Tells story of their God.

The unworthy:
Little is known of our lord Fatagris prior to his arrival.
However, He has deigned to speak a few words of His experience.
Through His wisdom, might we be blessed.
Our Lord Fatagris has spoken of a land in chaos.
It was a land of beginnings, and that is all.
Alas, nothing was able to grow beyond a beginning.
H saw much promise, and offered to help these people.
He offered to save their world - to provide proper cultivation to the deserving, and to cast down the unworthy.
The people spurned His offer, and in their ignorance took up arms against our lord.
For some time, He fought to save these people from themselves.
In time the usurpers grew in strength, and enlisted greater aid.
Though our lord remains undefeated, the demon Ragathiel was able to wound Him in a cowardly offense.
Enraged by their audacity, and frustrated by the world's reluctance to accept His aid, Fatagris abandoned the world to its fate.


Mortality discovered:
Fatagris descended upon our world in a glourious ball of fire.
He took notice of our world.
Insignificant beings crawl about the dirt, habitually engaging in senseless rituals throughout their brief existence.
Quickly forgotten.
In time He came to recognize these creatures as possessing some semblance of intelligence.
Soon thereafter, he discovered these mortal creatures' greatest fear.

Given little time in this plane, these mortals toil away in a vain attempt to gain just a few days more.
It seemed the mortals existed only to further that existence, whether in life or legacy.
Fatagris saw the hubris and hypocrisy in this existence, but He also saw potential.
Some mortals, in an attempt to leave a lasting impression upon the world, had accomplished impressive feats.
Fatagris saw that mortals most fear their own fleeting existence.


Rewards promised:
Despite meeting only reluctance in the past, our lord Fatagris once again offered his assistance.
He communicated with those pitiful mortals.
Through Fatagris, those mortals might achieve a measure of immortality.
Those that serve a greater purpose, He promised to elevate, that they might live on.
Naturally, those opposed will continue to have their flames extinguished.
The followers work toward a world free from conflict, where all creatures might have a clear sense of purpose.
No longer will injustice rule.
All shall receive the reward they are due - no more and no less.
It will be clear what is needed, and those filling the need shall be rewarded.
The lazy and misled will be punished.

It is clear to see His followers will be triumphant.
For those who follow, flare.
And those who resist, flicker.
Given sufficient time, only the flames shall remain.
Work steadily toward the glorification of our lord Fatagris, and you shall be rewarded.
The steps taken need not be great, so long as they travel in the proper direction.


Paradise lost:
Our lord Fatagris will continue to grow in strength until the light of judgement burns the unworthy from this world.
What remains will be only the enlightened.
In truth, this would be history, were it not for the interference of Ragathiel once again.
The unworthy of this world, in their greed and selfishness, sought to maintain their upside-down system.
They feared a world of equality, where rewards are truly earned.
In their fear, they struck against our lord Fatagris, seeking to end his march toward the inevitable.
Fatagris knows the strength of this world, and He did not fear this offense.
Had Ragathiel not sent his weapon, the Sihedron, to this world, The Enkindling would be behind us.

The faithful must take heart - the unworthy can not win the war.
Fatagris will provide a world where none must perish.
Immortality is attainable, and Fatagris will make it clear what must be done to achieve that goal.
To each according to their ability, for injustice is flammable.
All will receive what is deserved.


Future foretold:
Our lord Fatagris is the sole permanence of this world.
He can not be ended, for he is the ending.
He can not be defeated - only delayed.
He may have been reduced to but a spark, but from that spark a wildfire will erupt.
For now, He rests - kindling his strength.
The worthy, His followers, understand this simple truth.
We prepare the world to welcome His return.
The Enkindling in an inevitability.
The Enkindling will come.
The unworthy will be scoured from Domus, and those deserving shall inherit what is owed.
A perfect meritocracy awaits.
