https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/outsiders/devil/archdevil/archdevil-barbatos/

Archdevil, Barbatos
This humanoid wears a shabby hooded cloak. Within the darkness of its hood, eerie eyes glow and strange shapes twitch.

Barbatos CR 26

XP 2,457,600
LE Medium outsider (evil, extraplanar, lawful, shapechanger)
Init +13; Senses darkvision 60 ft., detect chaos, detect good, see in darkness, true seeing; Perception +44
Aura frightful presence (120 ft., DC 35), unholy aura (DC 28)

DEFENSE

AC 44, touch 36, flat-footed 34 (+4 deflection, +9 Dex, +1 dodge, +8 natural, +12 profane)
hp 604 (31d10+434); regeneration 30 (deific or mythic)
Fort +28, Ref +32, Will +31; +8 vs. mind-affecting effects
Defensive Abilities improved evasion, infernal resurrection, mind blank; DR 20/epic, good, and silver; Immune ability damage, ability drain, charm, compulsion, death effects, energy drain, fire, petrification, poison; Resist acid 30, cold 30; SR 37

OFFENSE

Speed 40 ft.; air walk
Melee Eyjatas +41/+41/+41/+36/+36/+31/+31/+26 (1d6+19/19–20), beard +36 (1d8+5 plus bleed and disease)
Special Attacks barbed beard, bleed (2d6), counterport, festering filth
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 26th; concentration +36)

Constant—air walk, detect chaos, detect good, mind blank, speak with animals, true seeing, unholy aura (DC 28)
At will—astral projection, blasphemyM (DC 27), desecrateM, dominate personM (DC 25), greater dispel magic, dominate animal (DC 23), greater scrying (DC 27), greater teleport, plane shiftM (DC 27), unhallow, unholy blightM (DC 24)
3/day—banishment (DC 27), quickened contagionM (DC 24), dimensional lockM, mazeM, summon devils
1/day—gate, time stopM, wishM

M Barbatos can use this ability’s mythic version in his realm.

STATISTICS

Str 30, Dex 29, Con 38, Int 29, Wis 30, Cha 31
Base Atk +31; CMB +41 (+45 trip); CMD 77 (79 vs. trip)
Feats Combat Expertise, Combat Reflexes, Deflect Arrows, Dodge, Double Slice, Greater Trip, Greater Two-Weapon Fighting, Improved Critical (quarterstaff), Improved Initiative, Improved Lightning Reflexes, Improved Trip, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, Lightning Reflexes, Mobility, Quicken Spell-Like Ability (contagion), Two-Weapon Fighting
Skills Acrobatics +40, Bluff +44, Diplomacy +41, Handle Animal +44, Intimidate +41, Knowledge (arcana, religion) +40, Knowledge (nature, planes) +43, Linguistics +43, Perception +44, Sense Motive +44, Spellcraft +43, Stealth +43, Use Magic Device +41
Languages all (language mastery); speak with animals; telepathy 300 ft.
SQ change shape (animal, humanoid, and magical beast; shapechange), hear name, sphere of souls

SPECIAL ABILITIES

Barbed Beard (Ex)
The bleeding caused by Barbatos’s slashing beard requires a successful DC 39 Heal check (or caster level check, for magical healing) to stanch. The save DC is Constitution-based.

Counterport (Su)
As an immediate action, Barbatos can negate any conjuration (calling, summoning, or teleportation), effect within 30 feet, or redirect creatures to new valid destinations within 30 feet. Affected creatures take 10d6 points of damage, but with a successful DC 35 Fortitude save, a creature takes only half damage and can teleport normally.

As a standard action, Barbatos can recall one creature that teleported since the end of his last turn. This functions as above, but the creature returns to the point from which it teleported (or the nearest available space, if that space is now occupied); the teleported creature can resist being recalled with a successful DC 35 Will save. The save DCs are Charisma-based.

Festering Filth (Su)
A creature struck by Barbatos’s filthy beard contracts blinding sickness if it fails a DC 39 Fortitude save. Attempts to remove this disease via a spell effect must first overcome Barbatos’s spell resistance before attempting to remove the disease normally as per the spell’s rules. The save DC is Constitution-based.

Hear Name (Su)
Barbatos hears his name when it is spoken, regardless of distance and even across planar boundaries. If a creature speaks Barbatos’s name three times in the same breath, Barbatos learns the creature’s name and precise location, and can hear the next 21 words spoken by that speaker. Once per day, if any living animal or an image or statue of Barbatos is within 10 feet of the speaker, Barbatos can answer the speaker via that image, statue, or animal (an animal can resist being made Barbatos’s mouthpiece with a successful DC 35 Will save). Barbatos can observe, converse, or utilize his spell-like abilities through this vessel for up to 13 rounds, but if Barbatos uses a spell-like ability through this link, the connection immediately ends thereafter, regardless of any remaining duration. The save DC is Charisma-based.

Sphere of Souls (Su)
As a full-round action, even when he is projecting his consciousness through his likeness or an animal, Barbatos can create a polished black crystal sphere that functions as a crystal ball with detect thoughts, which also grants him the benefits of status for 13 hours on one creature scried by the user. Each round a creature other than Barbatos uses the sphere, it must save against Barbatos’s dominate person ability. Barbatos can freely manipulate the vision the scryer sees, as false vision, and can use detect thoughts and scrying at unlimited range on any creature within 10 feet of the sphere, with no save and with a +10 bonus on caster level checks. Effects that normally block scrying spells instead allow each creature a saving throw and negate the bonus on caster level checks. Barbatos can have up to 13 such spheres at a time, and can destroy a sphere as a free action from any distance.

ECOLOGY

Environment any (Hell)
Organization solitary (unique)
Treasure triple (Eyjatas, other treasure)

Barbatos is a mystery among the lords of Hell, a being from beyond who came into the service of Asmodeus a mere millennium ago. Technically not a devil, Barbatos is nonetheless the archdevil of the uppermost layer of Hell. Since his arrival, he has served as the doorwarden of Hell, guarding its outer layer from angelic invasions and fiendish forays alike, and dealing with an endless stream of damned souls needing guidance to their final purgatory and tearful petitioners willing to risk everything for one final glimpse of their lost loves.

Barbatos dresses plainly, rarely showing more than his wicked staff and rumpled cloak, and stands 5 feet tall.

Eyjatas (Major Artifact)
Slot none; CL 26th; Weight 4 lbs.; Aura overwhelming all

Barbatos wields a potent weapon named Eyjatas, a +4 speed unholy quarterstaff embedded with innumerable inhuman eyeballs. Three times per day when striking a creature with Eyjatas, its wielder can rip the target’s eyes out, permanently blinding it and dealing 2d6 points of bleed damage. A creature can resist this effect with a successful DC 30 Fortitude save, but no save is allowed if the attack was a confirmed critical hit. Once Eyjatas rips out a creature’s eyes, it functions as a bane weapon against that target.

Three times per day, the wielder of Eyjatas can cast prying eyes. In addition, the wielder can use arcane eye at will, even on other planes viewed through scrying, and can use eyebite (DC 20) at will within 30 feet of the arcane eye.

DESTRUCTION

To destroy Eyjatas, the quarterstaff’s dozens of eyes must be blinded by the purifying light of an unwavering truth spoken by an immortal that has only ever spoken lies in its life. Once the eyes are blinded in this way, the staff must be hurled into a magical portal that has no entrance and that leads nowhere.

Barbatos’s Cult
Barbatos is the master of the rippling dimensions between worlds, and is worshiped by those who tread the hidden interstitial spaces of the universe, as well as those who manipulate animals and wild beasts, warping them through foul sorceries into sinister servants. His sacred places are found near crossroads, marketplaces, and ports, some accessible only by teleportation. As befits his role as the guardian to the entrance to Hell (and his association with gateways of all types), entrances to compounds are often held with particular reverence by Barbatos’s cult, and the doorways or arches that provide access to his temples or other sites sacred to him often bear his likeness or symbol.

Barbatos’s unholy symbol is an inverted triangle with three red eyes—often, the triangle portion of his symbol appears to be three filthy beards, the tangled hairs of which extend in three directions around the eyes at the center. His favored weapon is the quarterstaff. He grants access to the Evil, Law, Magic, and Travel domains, and to the Arcane, Devil, Divine, and Trade subdomains.
