The skill Craft(Ward) is used to inscribe.
http://thedemoncycle.wikia.com/wiki/Category:Wards

These runes do not contain power of their own, but rather transform and direct the power inherent in extraplanar beings.
When exposed to Outsiders, these runes are energized and result in various effects, determined by the nature of the runes.

The runes must be clear & visible to be effective.
If you draw 'em in dirt, and it rains on that dirt, the wards will be become obscured, and cease functioning.
As armor becomes scratched over time, inscribed wards will lose their effectiveness.
Etc.



The generic succor rune provides limited defense against all outsiders.

Various defensive runes exist which apply to a specific creature subtype:
http://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/rules-for-monsters/creature-types/
These subtype-specific runes are more effective than generic succor runes.

A defensive "Energy" rune also exists, which can be combined with a specific energy-type rune to provide defense against that energy.
ie: Energy+Fire = Protection from a fire-based BreathWeapon.



Each offensive rune applies to a particular type of damage:
Piercing
Bludgeoning/Impact
Slashing/Cutting
Stasis
Pressure?



Energy runes can be used to modify the effect of other runes:
Acid
Cold
Electricity
Fire
Force
Sonic
Positive
Negative

Various other runes exist with specialized purposes:
Unsight (Stealth bonuses vs Outsiders)
Blending (Stealth bonus vs all)
Wardsight (See magical spectra)
Light (Commonly used as an alarm system)
Prophecy (As Augury)
Moisture (Forced condensation or evaporation)
Confusion
Heal
Reinforce (Increase hardness)
Pressure



The base DC to inscribe is 15.
When combining runes, the DC increases by 4 for every rune beyond the first.
For every 5 that the DC is exceeded, the effect is increased by +1.

So, inscribing defensive "Fire"-subtype runes on a suit of armor would require a DC15 Craft(Wards) check.
On a roll of 15-19, the crafting succeeds and the armor grants an additional +1 AC vs Outsiders with the Fire subtype.
On a roll of 20-24, the armor grants an additional +1, for a total of +2 AC vs Outsiders with the Fire subtype.
On a failure of 10 or more (ie: 4 or less), the armor might even be damaged, depending on the material being used to inscribe.
  ie: Paint could be cleaned off, but if carving, the cuts may weaken the original material.

