Shard of Pride
  Owned by Astabar.  His pride led him to believe he could conquer magic itself.
  Party acquired it while investigating the mansion.

Stone of Humility
  Safeguarded within the Cryptex by the Druids.
  The cryptex was enchanted such that it bestowed visions upon the opener, of Fatagris' history.
  Elroy gave Dakath the secret, Jondi opened it, got historical visions.

Aspect of Self-Worth:
  Socketing Pride & Humility yielded vision:
  Envy - Held by Krusk, currently besieging a temple of Irori.
  Compassion - Abandoned in Three Rivers, along with Gareth's sword and a note for Dakath.

Stone of Compassion:
  Acquired by Dakath in Three Rivers.

Shard of Envy:
  Krusk killed in battle, shard taken from him.

Aspect of Intention:
  Socketed by Dakath, showed vision:
  Sloth - In an underwater ruin.
  Diligence - In a construct of some sort, in a desert wasteland, atop a Gnome's house.

Shard of Sloth:
  Recovered from submerged ruins by Jondi & Dakath via teleportation.

Stone of Diligence:
  In-use by Phineas the Gnome so he can tinker restlessly.
  He treasures it, but is willing to trade it for a chance at building an airship.  He needs SIMPL, though.

Aspect of Motivation:
  Reveals vision:
  Gluttony - Currently in a Red Dragon's stash, but stolen by a halfling thief mid-vision.
  Temperance - In a vault under Bear Mountain, behind Duergar lines.

Shard of Gluttony:
  A dragon is eating all livestock in a region, causing widespread famine.
  When the livestock were gone, the dragon starting eating the people.
  Only reason anyone's survived is because the dragon has overeaten to the point that it can no longer fly.
  On foot, humans are able to escape... sometimes.
  Shard has very recently been stolen by a thief, who immediately starts down path of necromancy.

Stone of Temperance:
  Dwarves were once the custodians, but wars with the Duergar caused the dwarves to lose some ground.
  Stone now rests behind enemy lines, sealed in a vault within Duergar territory.
  Dwarves want Brunhilde to return and marry Guldus Stonebore.  In return, they'll attack
    as a diversion, so party can slip behind enemy lines.

Aspect of Moderation:
  Vision when assembled:
  Patience - Abandoned Castle Lan.
  Wrath - Hobgoblin army warlord.

Shard of Wrath: 
  Held by a hobgoblin warlord, beseiging a town?
  Or... maybe Mormus has it already?
  He's riding an undead horse, at the head of an army.
  Maybe he's running with the 4 horsemen now - that'd be cool.
  Mormus could be Pestilience

Stone of Patience:
  In a vault within the ruins of Castle Lan.  Protected by Xinthos Lanward.
  Wards of Unsight protect it from Scrying/etc.
  Defensive wards throughout the castle.
  Xinthos tells Jondi of his past,
    including Oracle prediction that 
    including Dakath/Lukas' sacrifice to create the Lich.
  Xinthos might give Jondi a staff or something (phylactery).
  Xinthos gives Stone.

Aspect of Tolerance:
  Vision when assembled:
  Lust - A town, feminine man slips it into a wealthy man's pocket.
  Chastity - A mansion in a town, it's sitting in a display case.

Shard of Lust:
  Lady of the night has it.
  Her husband is a Eunuch and he carries it, so is immune.
  Husband drops it into pockets of well-to-do men, who the whore then gouges.
  She then steals it from his discarded clothing, and repeats.
  They've left a trail of angry wives, and confused "rich" men.

Stone of Chastity
  Collector has it, and will trade if you can get him Nightblood.
  Nightblood is within the escape dungeon?

Aspect of Carnality:
  Vision when assembled:
  Greed - Mormus sitting in a castle, on the roof is written "Come and take it"
  Charity - 

Shard of Greed:
  Mormus has it, and knows you'll come to him.
  He's fortified himself.
  He's sitting in a castle, words spelled out on the roof, in corpses:
  "Come and take it".

Stone of Charity
  A swindler of sorts has discovered the secret of the shard, and gifts it to people.
  Once they have it, he simply asks for everything they have, and they happily give it.
  Swindler has some method of possessing it without being influenced by it.
  Gambles, losing on purpose?  Loses stone?  Requests everything in return?



