Piece 1 - Gem of Carnality
Shard of Lust
  Lady of the night has it.
  Her husband is a Eunuch and he carries it, so is immune.
  Husband drops it into pockets of well-to-do men, who the whore then gouges.
  She then steals it from his discarded clothing, and repeats.
  They've left a trail of angry wives, and confused "rich" men.
Stone of Chastity
  Collector has it, and will trade if you can get him Nightblood.

Piece 2 - Gem of Moderation
Shard of Gluttony
  A dragon is eating all livestock in a region, causing widespread famine.
  When the livestock were gone, the dragon starting eating the people.
  Only reason anyone's survived is because the dragon has overeaten to the point that it can no longer fly.
  On foot, humans are able to escape... sometimes.
Stone of Temperance
  Dwarves of Bear Mountain have it, and they'll trade it to you if you can recover some treasure of theirs from the underdark.

Piece 3 - Gem of Satisfaction
Shard of Greed
  Possessed by Rask Rulon - drove him to overtax his residents, spurring crime & such.
  It's also driving him to attempt gaining control of Duvia, despite their alliance of sorts.
  Eventually he'll likely attempt to overthrow the Nekha Kingdom entirely.
Stone of Charity
  A swindler of sorts has discovered the secret of the shard, and gifts it to people.
  Once they have it, he simply asks for everything they have, and they happily give it.
  Swindler has some method of possessing it without being influenced by it.
  Gambles, losing on purpose?  Loses stone?  Requests everything in return?

Piece 4 - Gem of Motivation
Shard of Sloth
  Black Fang, maybe?  Some monstrous defender of a town/region, now lazy, and the town's in distress as a result?
  Defender keeps promising to help if townfolk cater to him a bit more, but he won't get up.
  Defender is also a "god" of sorts to this region, due to the history of defending town.
Stone of Diligence
  Owned by a gnomish tinkerer/inventor on Gnome Island?

Piece 5 - Gem of Tolerance
Shard of Wrath
  Hobgoblin army warlord?  Large-scale battle?
Stone of Patience
  Relic within a church?

Piece 6 - Gem of Intention
Shard of Envy
  Carried by Krusk.  It grants him power, but also drives him to take from others what he never had - a family.
Stone of Compassion
  Formerly carried by a Knight, Gareth.  It influenced him to become a crusader of good, to help others wherever possible.
  It was a large influence in his "adoption" of Dakath.
  Gareth 

Piece 7 - Gem of Self-worth
Shard of Pride
  Owned by Astabar.  His pride led him to believe he could conquer magic itself.
Stone of Humility
  Safeguarded within the Cryptex by the Druids.
  The cryptex was enchanted such that it bestowed visions upon the opener, of Fatagris' history.

