Dusty rose prism

Curse:
When used negatively, a nice guy implies a male who is unassertive, 
  does not express his true feelings and, in the context of dating (in which the term is often used[8]), 
  uses acts of ostensible friendship with the unstated aim of progressing to a romantic or sexual relationship
Helpfulness towards someone in need, not in return for anything,
  nor for the advantage of the helper himself, but for that of the person helped

Compassion motivates people to go out of their way to help the physical, mental, or emotional pains of another


Will save required to take an offensive action.
  -ie: Run from fights, sure, but not fight back.
DC10 to take the action.
DC15 to avoid taking 1/2 psychic damage yourself.

Boon:
This stone grants the wearer a +1 insight bonus to AC.



Plot:
Dakath's knight father-figure is actually kind of a shitty guy, but was kind to Dakath because he was
  cursed by the Stone of Compassion.
Stone is on a necklace, draped 'round the Empathic Blade, in Dakath's hometown.



You haven't put a lot of thought into it until now, but it begins to dawn on you that your companions have experienced great hardship in life.
You feel compelled to ease their grief, anger, etc.
You should attempt to learn more of their situations, and help them find happiness in any way that you are able.

Pipa:
All of her family and friends were slaughtered around her, and she spent years afterward in slavery.
She seems consumed with revenge, but you worry what she'll do once that revenge has been attained.
Does she have nothing else to live for?
Perhaps you can help her to form new, meaningful bonds with her companions.

Lukas:
Few have experienced such trauma as this pitiful man.
His wife and daughter were murdered while he was absent - he must be feeling guilt over that.
And after Astabar's manor, he now knows that his daughter lingers, unable to rest.
Further, his recent torture by the Miesalmebi seems to have damaged his already unstable mind.
Somehow he came out of that situation with fire resistance, which must also be confusing to the poor man.
It's not surprising this tortured soul has turned to the drink.

Jondi:
He has shared very little of his life prior to your meeting, and does not seem very talkative.
Until now you've assumed him to be somewhat rude and stand-offish, but perhaps there's more going on.
He's by far the most intelligent of the bunch.
Perhaps he feels frustrated that others are unable to keep up with his own thought processes - that could be why he's socially withdrawn.
He must surely feel lonely.  Does he truly have so little in common with his companions?
Also, he's nearly died a number of times - that's gotta be rough.

Dakath:
As a half-elf, he has nowhere to belong.  He lacks all knowledge of his parents.
The only family he's ever known, has now departed this plane.  All that remains is an abandoned village.
Elven society would shun him for his "tainted" blood, if he ever attempts to visit.
Were he to live among humans, he would outlive them all, watching all of his friends wither and die while he remained youthful.
He seems to have a father-figure in this knight, Gareth.  Sadly they are separated, and Gareth will age & die long before Dakath.
Dakath seems doomed to a lifetime of loss and loneliness.
Desna must be the only constant in his life.
You wonder about his early life.  How did he come to be a paladin of Desna.  Why Desna?
By understanding why Dakath chose to follow Desna, you may be able to better understand Dakath himself.
At the least, you feel strongly that you should help this man find his friend Gareth.

Brunhilde:
What an enigma.  You met her as a Cleric of Sarenrae, though now she's a dual-wielding Ranger with a bear friend.
You wonder why she cast off the cloth.  That sort of philosophical decision does not come easily.
She and this bear get on incredibly well, like old friends.  It almost seems as if they can communicate.
You've known rangers to keep animal companions, but you've never seen this species of bear before - where did it come from?
Surely she and the bear have some history together, but then where was the bear when you met her?
Brunhilde never speaks of home, or of her family.  You wonder why she left.
Most adventurers are either searching or running - which is she?









